📄 Documentation – Hackathon Results Management System
1. Project Overview

The Hackathon Results Management System is a console-based C# application developed as part of the Óbuda University assignment. The system imports hackathon project results from an XML file, validates and persists them into an SQL database using Entity Framework Core, executes a series of LINQ queries, and exports the results in JSON format.
The application also demonstrates delegates, events, asynchronous operations, OOP structure, and layered architecture.

2. Solution Structure

The Visual Studio solution contains two projects:

1. HackathonApp (Console Application – Startup Project)

Handles user interaction through a console menu
Manages I/O paths, configuration loading, and event subscriptions
Runs all LINQ queries and JSON exports
Displays import summaries and execution results
Contains the XML file under Data/ and generates output JSON files under Output/

2. HackathonData (Class Library)

Contains the EF Core DbContext, entity definitions, and Fluent API configuration
Implements data import services and LINQ query services
Contains repository-style classes responsible for DB operations
Includes EF Core migrations under Data/Migrations/

3. Technologies Used

C# 12 / .NET 9.0
Entity Framework Core (Code-First approach)
SQL Server / LocalDB
XML Parsing (LINQ to XML)
JSON Serialization using System.Text.Json
Events & Delegates for notifying completion of the XML import
Async I/O operations
LINQ (method + query syntax)

4. Data Import Process

The application loads HackathonResults.xml from the Data folder
Each record is validated according to the assignment rules
Valid records are mapped into Project entities
Data is upserted
Insert new records
Update existing ones by Id
Invalid records are skipped and summarized
After import completes, a custom event is raised providing:
Inserted count
Updated count
Skipped count
Import duration

5. Events & Delegates

A custom delegate and event are implemented:

public delegate void DataImportedHandler(int inserted, int updated, int skipped, TimeSpan duration);
The event is fired after a successful import, and the console displays a formatted message with all import statistics.

6. LINQ Queries (15 Total)

The system includes simple, medium, and complex LINQ queries covering filtering, sorting, grouping, average calculations, and category-based ranking.
Both method syntax and query syntax are used, as required.
Each query is implemented in a dedicated service method and accessible through the console menu.

7. JSON Export

Results of all 15 queries can be exported
Each query result is written to a separate JSON file
Files are stored under HackathonApp/Output/
Pretty formatting (WriteIndented = true) is enabled
Directory is auto-created if missing

8. Error Handling

XML parsing errors are caught and logged
DB exceptions are handled with readable console messages
Invalid records do not stop execution
Optional logging is written to logs/ if enabled

9. Configuration

An appsettings.json file stores:
Database connection string
Relative paths for XML and JSON files
Other optional settings
The console app loads configuration via ConfigurationBuilder

10. Testing & Verification

The following were tested before submission:
Successful build and run on .NET 9
Importing XML with mixed valid and invalid records
Event trigger and correct summary output
All 15 LINQ queries execute without errors
JSON files generated correctly and readable
EF Core migrations apply database schema successfully

11. Notes

The project follows clean architecture principles and separation of concerns
All classes are organized and documented for clarity
The solution is structured to be easily extended (e.g., adding more queries or data sources)